MSK Format
Intel byte order

Information from File Format List 2.0 by Max Maischein.

--------!-CONTACT_INFO----------------------
If you notice any mistakes or omissions, please let me know!  It is only
with YOUR help that the list can continue to grow.  Please send
all changes to me rather than distributing a modified version of the list.

This file has been authored in the style of the INTERxxy.* file list
by Ralf Brown, and uses almost the same format.

Please read the file FILEFMTS.1ST before asking me any questions. You may find
that they have already been addressed.

         Max Maischein

Max Maischein, 2:244/1106.17
Max_Maischein@spam.fido.de
corion@informatik.uni-frankfurt.de
Corion on #coders@IRC
--------!-DISCLAIMER------------------------
DISCLAIMER:  THIS MATERIAL IS PROVIDED "AS IS".  I verify the information
contained in this list to the best of my ability, but I cannot be held
responsible for any problems caused by use or misuse of the information,
especially for those file formats foreign to the PC, like AMIGA or SUN file
formats. If an information it is marked "guesswork" or undocumented, you
should check it carefully to make sure your program will not break with
an unexpected value (and please let me know whether or not it works
the same way).

Information marked with "???" is known to be incomplete or guesswork.

Some file formats were not released by their creators, others are regarded
as proprietary, which means that if your programs deal with them, you might
be looking for trouble. I don't care about this.
--------------------------------------------

The MSK files are mask files used by the Autodesk Animator and Animator Pro
packages. Two types of MSK files exist. The Animator Pro version is simply a PIC
file with the depth 1; A MSK file created by the original Animator is exactly
8000 bytes long. There is no file header or other control information in the
file. It contains the image bit map, 1 bit per pixel, with the leftmost pixels
packed into the high order bits of each byte. The size of the image is fixed at
320x200. The image is stored left-to-right, top-to-bottom.

EXTENSION:MSK
OCCURENCES:PC
PROGRAMS:Autodesk Animator
SEE ALSO:PIC,FLIc
