PIC Format
Intel byte order

Information from File Format List 2.0 by Max Maischein.

--------!-CONTACT_INFO----------------------
If you notice any mistakes or omissions, please let me know!  It is only
with YOUR help that the list can continue to grow.  Please send
all changes to me rather than distributing a modified version of the list.

This file has been authored in the style of the INTERxxy.* file list
by Ralf Brown, and uses almost the same format.

Please read the file FILEFMTS.1ST before asking me any questions. You may find
that they have already been addressed.

         Max Maischein

Max Maischein, 2:244/1106.17
Max_Maischein@spam.fido.de
corion@informatik.uni-frankfurt.de
Corion on #coders@IRC
--------!-DISCLAIMER------------------------
DISCLAIMER:  THIS MATERIAL IS PROVIDED "AS IS".  I verify the information
contained in this list to the best of my ability, but I cannot be held
responsible for any problems caused by use or misuse of the information,
especially for those file formats foreign to the PC, like AMIGA or SUN file
formats. If an information it is marked "guesswork" or undocumented, you
should check it carefully to make sure your program will not break with
an unexpected value (and please let me know whether or not it works
the same way).

Information marked with "???" is known to be incomplete or guesswork.

Some file formats were not released by their creators, others are regarded
as proprietary, which means that if your programs deal with them, you might
be looking for trouble. I don't care about this.
--------------------------------------------

PIC files contain images in an uncompressed format. Both the original Animator
and Animator Pro from Autodesk produce PIC files. The file formats are
different; Animator Pro produces a hierarchial block oriented file, while the
original Animator file is a simpler fixed format. See PIC(Pro) for further
information on the Animator Pro PIC format.

The original Animator uses this format to store a single-frame picture image.
This format description applies to both PIC and original Animator CEL files. The
file begins with a 32 byte header, as follows:

OFFSET              Count TYPE   Description
0000h                   1 word   ID=9119h
0002h                   1 word   Width of image; PIC files have always a width
                                 of 320, CEL images may have any value.
0004h                   1 word   Height of image, 200 for a PIC, any value for
                                 a CEL file.
0006h                   1 word   X offset of image, always 0 for a PIC image,
                                 may be nonzero in a CEL image.
0008h                   1 word   Y offset of image. Zero for a PIC file.
000Ah                   1 byte   Bits per pixel (8)
000Bh                   1 byte   Compresion flag, always zero
000Ch                   1 dword  Size of the image data in bytes
0010h                  16 byte   reserved(0)

Immediately following the header is the color map.  It contains all 256 palette
entries in rgb order. Each of the r, g, and b components is a single byte in the
range of 0-63.  Following the color palette is the image data, one byte per
pixel, from left to right, top to bottom.
EXTENSION:PIC,CEL
OCCURENCES:PC
PROGRAMS:Autodesk Animator
SEE ALSO:CEL,FLIc,PIC(PRO)
